Although many of our construction projects
are the result of growth
in a branch territory,
our donations also are put to good use
when disasters strike.
The organization is quick to respond
to the needs of our brothers and sisters
in affected areas.
This includes
the distribution of relief supplies.
It also involves helping our brothers
repair or rebuild
their homes and Kingdom Halls.
This was the case in 2011
when a large tornado
ripped through the state of Missouri,
in the United States.
When a disaster strikes,
the Disaster Relief Desk takes the lead
in caring for the needs of the field.
This is done by using volunteers.
Our brothers know how to work together.
We’re using volunteers
that are used to crawling over each other
and working in a Kingdom Hall.
So they have the ability
to get into a disaster situation
and take direction and just take care of it.
It’s an evaluation process
to see what’s needed.
Then the Purchasing Department, locally,
will then go ahead
and start buying materials.
Those will be delivered,
and volunteers will come to,
to prepare the home
back to livable conditions
so that our brothers and sisters
can get back into their homes.
So we stabilize the friends,
we stabilize the houses,
we can stabilize the congregation.
We had a group of brothers
that went into Joplin, Missouri
after the tornado
destroyed 30 percent of the city.
We had probably 30, 40 volunteers
working on the house,
and a woman comes down the street
from the neighborhood.
She sees all the volunteers working;
she thinks it’s a construction organization.
She says, “Can I pay you
to come over and fix my garage?”
It was basically a shed
that had been picked up off the slab,
turned upside down,
and moved a few feet away from the slab.
So the brothers said,
“Well, let’s go take a look at it.”
So they went over and took a look at it.
It wasn’t that hard.
The shed was still intact.
They said, “We can do this in a few minutes.”
So they went and got all of their volunteers;
they went over there; they picked the shed up
—they got about 30 brothers on it—
and they turned it over
and put it on the slab.
And the woman was so thankful.
She says, “OK, so what do I owe you?”
They said, “No, we’re all volunteers;
we’re Jehovah’s Witnesses.
We’re working through
the local Kingdom Hall, here, relief center.”
And she says, “You’re kidding me.
You’re all volunteers?”
He says, “Yeah, and we’re out. . . ,”
and she says, “What are you doing here?”
And he said, “We’re out working
on our brothers’ and sisters’ homes,
and trying to help them get stabilized.”
She was in tears.
She came back down the street
a few minutes later
with a wad of money in her hand.
She said, “I want to tell you a story.”
She says, “I called my church
after this happened
“and I asked them to come work,
“to do this work for me,
to put this shed back on its slab.
“They said, ‘We can do that.
We’ll be there in about three weeks
and it’s going to cost you this much.’”
She says, “And here you folks
come over to my house,
“you don’t charge me,
you don’t even know who I am,
and you put my home back together
—what I needed to have done.”
She says, “Here’s the money; you have this;
you put it in your contribution box.”
When someone helps
in building a Kingdom Hall,
when someone helps
in building an Assembly Hall,
when someone aids
in caring for a natural disaster,
their lives are changed forever.
When someone is benefited
by one of these programs,
their lives are changed forever.
The love demonstrated in the organization
is truly faith-strengthening to see!
The same arrangement
to respond to disasters
is in place all around the world.
It is your contributions
that make this possible.
For this we sincerely thank you.